proprioceptive neuromuscular
facilitation stretching just means your
brain is telling your muscles to flex
while you stretch
pnf stretching has been proven in
studies even as recent as 2021 to be a
more effective way of increasing range
of motion then static stretching i don't
usually recommend static stretching as a
warm-up but pnf stretching dynamic
stretching and loaded stretching all
actually increase blood flow to the
muscle while simultaneously increasing
range of motion so you are effectively
warming up
and stretching
at the same time
yes you heard me right stretching and
warming up at the same time meaning that
stretching and warming up are actually
two separate things because in order to
warm up you need some sort of muscle
activation and pnf stretching can help
do that for you now for the middle
splits i always like to start on the
ground in a pancake stretch you just sit
down spread your legs find a comfortable
stretch and all you're going to do is
stretch into it
passively static stretching for 5 to 15
seconds once that time has passed you're
going to squeeze your legs together keep
them apart squeeze them into the ground
as well flex flex flex after another
interval of 5 to 15 seconds is pass
relax
and then deepen the range of motion and
you're going to repeat that anywhere
between 3 to 8 times and that's going to
give you the best results to get you
into your middle splits in the fastest
way possible
[Music]
in order to more effectively get your
middle splits with less chance of injury
you will need to do more than just
stretch your adductors you will also
need to stretch your secondary muscles
which will include your hip flexors your
glutes and your hamstrings all together
so we are going to hit both our hip
flexors and our hamstrings at once by
training our front split all you need to
do is grab something to support you get
yourself as far down as you can while
still maintaining just a comfortable
stretch it doesn't have to be too
painful and instead of letting your back
knee drop down lift it in the air and
lean forward till you feel that
hamstring stretching again repeat the
pnf process where you're holding for
around 5 to 15 seconds and then squeeze
keep that back leg straight squeeze that
hamstring down
and then after that relax
sink a little deeper and repeat the
process again three to fifteen times